TIP-1240: Add doc to add new attribute types (#10872)
akeneo/pim-community-dev: internal_doc/enrichment/add_new_attribute_type.md

# Add a new attribute type

## Context

This documentation will help you to add a new attribute type in the PIM. 
We will add a new attribute type called `Range`, defined by a min and a max value.
This documentation will allow you to:
- be able to save product (and product model) values with this attribute type,
- calculate the completeness of these entities,
- update the values in the product edit form,
- export your product values.

This documentation will not:
- cover the indexation of this field (you can take a look at `Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Normalizer\Indexing\Value\AbstractProductValueNormalizer`),
- cover the search on the values defined on this attribute (you can take a look at `Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Query\Filter\AttributeFilterInterface`),
- cover the import processes (take a look at `Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Connector\ArrayConverter\FlatToStandard\ValueConverter\ValueConverterInterface`).

## Step 1: Create the attribute type (backend)

You need to create a new `AttributeTypeInterface` and add its service. 

> For it, you can use the `AbstractAttributeType` and add its definition as a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, you can use the `AbstractAttributeType` and add its definition as a service.
```

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/AttributeType/RangeType.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType;

use Akeneo\Pim\Structure\Component\AttributeType\AbstractAttributeType;

class RangeType extends AbstractAttributeType
{
    const RANGE = 'range';

    public function getName()
    {
        return self::RANGE;
    }
}
```

Add this class in `services.yml` with the `pim_catalog.attribute_type` tag.
Please note that services with such a tag will be loaded by the `RegisterAttributePass`.

> You can customize the backend type to do special processes for validation and normalization processes. We will use the default one `text`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the backend type for special validation and normalization processes. We will use the default one `text`. 
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml
services:
    acme.range.attributetype.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType\RangeType
        arguments: ['text']
        tags:
            - { name: pim_catalog.attribute_type, alias: range, entity: '%pim_catalog.entity.product.class%' }
```

## Step 2: Create the values

> **Warning** For now, you have to create 2 value factories (one for reading purpose, another one for writing purpose).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Warning** For now, you have to create 2 value factories (one for reading purposes, another one for writing purposes).
```

Next, the comparator, used to know whether the value was updated or not. A comparator returns null if the data was not updated.

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/Product/Comparator/Attribute/RangeComparator.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Comparator\Attribute;

use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Comparator\ComparatorInterface;

class RangeComparator implements ComparatorInterface
{
    public function supports($data)
    {
        return $data === 'range';
    }

    public function compare($data, $originals)
    {
        $original = $originals['data'];
        $new = $data['data'];

        if (isset($new['min']) && isset($new['max']) && 
            isset($original['min']) && isset($original['max']) &&
            $new['min'] === $original['min'] &&
            $new['max'] === $original['max']
        ) {
            return null;
        }

        return $data;
    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.comparator.attribute.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Comparator\Attribute\RangeComparator
        tags:
            - { name: pim_catalog.attribute.comparator }
```

## Step 4: Completeness

> To be able to compute the completeness, it has to be defined when a value is considered to be **complete** or **incomplete**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to compute the completeness, a value has to be defined as **complete** or **incomplete**.
```

> Since Akeneo PIM 4.0, we use the notion of masks to generate keys for each filled value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Akeneo PIM 4.0, we have been using the notion of masks to generate keys for each filled value.
```

Author: It's the present/future :)

The generated mask for a filled value should look like `attributeCode-channelCode-localeCode`.

> For more information about completeness masks, please read documentation of `RequiredAttributesMask` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about completeness masks, please read the documentation of `RequiredAttributesMask` class.
```

                    $attributeCode,
                    $channelCode,
                    $localeCode
                )
            ];
        } else {
            return [];
        }
    }

    public function supportedAttributeTypes(): array
    {
        return [RangeType::RANGE];
    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.completeness.mask_item_generator.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Completeness\MaskItemGenerator\RangeMaskItemGenerator
        tags: [{ name: akeneo.pim.enrichment.completeness.mask_item_generator }]
```

## Step 5: User Interface

You will need to display a new field in the product edit form to be able to use your new attribute type.
Add a new HTML template with 2 fields. 
You can customize the style of your page using our [styleguide](https://docs.akeneo.com/master/design_pim/styleguide/index.php). 

```html
<!-- src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/templates/product/field/range-field.html -->
<input class="AknTextField AknTextField--noRightRadius min" value="<%- value.data.min %>">
<input class="AknTextField AknTextField--noLeftRadius max" value="<%- value.data.max %>">
```

> Register it in the requirejs file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register it in the required file:
```

Author: It's "requirejs", it's not a typo :)

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/requirejs.yml
config:
    paths:
        acme/template/range-field: acmerange/templates/product/field/range-field.html
```

Each attribute type (text, boolean, single option, etc) have a dedicated javascript module loaded in the product edit form.
You have to create a new `range` javascript module to edit these values. 

> The `updateModel` function will be called each time the user will fill in the fields.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `updateModel` function will be called each time the user fills in the fields.  
```

```javascript
// src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/js/product/field/range-field.js
define(
    ['underscore', 'pim/field', 'acme/template/range-field'],
    (_, Field, template) => {
        return Field.extend({
            inputTemplate: _.template(template),
            events: { 'change input': 'updateModel' },

            renderInput(templateContext) {
                return this.inputTemplate(_.extend(templateContext));
            },

            updateModel: function () {
                this.setCurrentValue({
                    min: this.$('.min').val(),
                    max: this.$('.max').val()
                });
            }
        });
    }
);
```

Register it as a new entry in your `requirejs.yml` file:
```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/requirejs.yml
config:
    paths:
        acme/range-field: acmerange/js/product/field/range-field
        acme/template/range-field: acmerange/templates/product/field/range-field.html
```

Next, the backend needs to indicate to the front what module to use regarding the attribute type.

> For that, each attribute type have a corresponding `FieldProviderInterface`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To that end, each attribute type has a corresponding `FieldProviderInterface`.
```

> Define this new provider, it supports only `range` attribute types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define this new provider, it only supports `range` attribute types.
```

> This class indicate what javascript extension to use (here, `acme-range-field`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class indicates what javascript extension to use (here, `acme-range-field`).
```

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/Enrich/Provider/Field/RangeFieldProvider.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\Enrich\Provider\Field;

use Akeneo\Platform\Bundle\UIBundle\Provider\Field\FieldProviderInterface;
use Akeneo\Pim\Structure\Component\Model\AttributeInterface;
use Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType\RangeType;

class RangeFieldProvider implements FieldProviderInterface
{
    public function getField($element)
    {
        return 'acme-range-field';
    }

    public function supports($element)
    {
        return $element instanceof AttributeInterface && $element->getType() === RangeType::RANGE;
    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.provider.field.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Enrich\Provider\Field\RangeFieldProvider
        tags:
            - { name: pim_enrich.provider.field }
```

> Then, register in the form extensions, that the `acme-range-field` have to load the `acme/range-field` extension defined above. 

Reviewer 2: has

> # Add new attribute type

Reviewer 2: > Add **a** new attribute type 

or 

> Add new attribute type**s**

Reviewer 2: Don't forget the title of this PR haha

## Context

This documentation will help you to add a new attribute type in the PIM. 

> We will add a new attribute type called `Range`, defined with a min and a max value.

Reviewer 2: defined by a min and a max value

> **Warnings**

Reviewer 3: For all this part: IMO it makes your new AttributeType almost useless. In this paragraph I would rather explain:
- whet id _does_ cover
- for what it does not (filters, ...), at least point out where one should look at in order to take example, e.g:
``` 
if you want to go further, have a look at these services:
- ...
- ...
```

> **Warnings**

Reviewer 2: **Limitations**

> - It does not imply the search on the values defined on this attribute

Reviewer 2: It does not cover [***]

Reviewer 2: Can you point to some examples, namespaces to check, etc?

- It does not imply the indexation of this field
- It does not imply the API import nor export processes

> - It does not do any validation on the Range values (min inferior to max, etc)

Reviewer 2: It does not perform

> ## Step 1: Initialize your Symfony bundle

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure about this part. IMO if people want to add a new attribute type, they already know how to create a bundle, register services, etc.

Create the Symfony bundle

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/AcmeRangeBundle.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle;

use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\Bundle\Bundle;

class AcmeRangeBundle extends Bundle {}
```

> Temporary, create an empty service file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a (temporarily) empty service file
```

> Temporary, create an empty service file

Reviewer 2: Create a new service file that will be used later.

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml
services:
```

Then add the bundle extension to allow to load it.

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/DependencyInjection/AcmeRangeExtension.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\DependencyInjection;

use Symfony\Component\Config\FileLocator;
use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\ContainerBuilder;
use Symfony\Component\DependencyInjection\Loader\YamlFileLoader;
use Symfony\Component\HttpKernel\DependencyInjection\Extension;

class AcmeRangeExtension extends Extension
{
    public function load(array $configs, ContainerBuilder $container)
    {
        $loader = new YamlFileLoader($container, new FileLocator(__DIR__.'/../Resources/config'));
        $loader->load('services.yml');
    }
}
```

## Step 2: Create the attribute type (backend)

> Attribute types are auto loaded with `RegisterAttributeTypePass`. 

Reviewer 2: automatically

Reviewer 2: with > by the

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the sentence actually brings value here, while it helps understanding what happens behind the scenes, it is not necessary for global comprehension. Or you can move this to the sentence just below like this: 
> Add this class in services.yml with the `pim_catalog.attribute_type` tag. Please note that services with such a tag will be loaded by the `RegisterAttributePass`.

> You need to create a new `AttributeTypeInterface` and add its service. For it, you can use the `AbstractAttributeType`.

Reviewer 2: and add its definition as a service

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/AttributeType/RangeType.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType;

use Akeneo\Pim\Structure\Component\AttributeType\AbstractAttributeType;

class RangeType extends AbstractAttributeType
{
    const RANGE = 'range';

    public function getName()
    {
        return self::RANGE;
    }
}
```

Call this class in services file with the `pim_catalog.attribute_type` tag.

> You can customize the backend type to do special treatments on the validation and normalization processes. We will use the default one `text`. 

Reviewer 2: special processing for validation and for normalization.

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml
services:
    acme.range.attributetype.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType\RangeType
        arguments: ['text']
        tags:
            - { name: pim_catalog.attribute_type, alias: range, entity: '%pim_catalog.entity.product.class%' }
```

## Step 3: Create the values

> **Warning** For now, you have to create 2 value factories (one for reading purpose, one for writing purpose).

Reviewer 2: another one for writing purpose

> They are very similar, and will probably be refactored in the next months.

Reviewer 2: you can err on the side of caution here and mention a vague future ;)

Author: We are currently working on it :)

Reviewer 2: Awesome!

> To keep this tutorial as the simplest possible, we will use the same format, from back-end to front-end.

Reviewer 2: For the sake of simplicity, we will re-use the same format both for back-end and front-end

A range value will be defined as an array, with `min` and `max` keys.
The factories are here to create localizable and scopable values, linked to a specific attribute.

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/Product/Factory/Value/RangeValueFactory.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Factory\Value;

use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Factory\Write\Value\AbstractValueFactory;
use Akeneo\Pim\Structure\Component\Model\AttributeInterface;
use Akeneo\Tool\Component\StorageUtils\Exception\InvalidPropertyTypeException;

class RangeValueFactory extends AbstractValueFactory
{
    protected function prepareData(AttributeInterface $attribute, $data, bool $ignoreUnknownData)
    {
        if ($data === null) {
            $data = ['min' => null, 'max' => null];
        }
        if (!is_array($data)) {
            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayExpected($attribute->getCode(), static::class, $data);
        }

>         if (!key_exists('min', $data)) {

Reviewer 3: please use `array_key_exists` (most commonly used form, `key_exists` is an alias)

            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayKeyExpected($attribute->getCode(), 'min', static::class, $data);
        }

>         if (!key_exists('max', $data)) {

Reviewer 3: same

            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayKeyExpected($attribute->getCode(), 'max', static::class, $data);

>         }

Reviewer 3: also: now you shouldn't be able to create a value where both `min` and `max` are null

Author: You should for the PEF.

        return ['min' => $data['min'], 'max' => $data['max']];
    }
}
```

```php
<?php # src/Acme/RangeBundle/Product/Factory/Read/Value/RangeValueFactory.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Factory\Read\Value;

use Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType\RangeType;
use Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Value\RangeValue;
use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Factory\Read\Value\ValueFactory;
use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Model\ValueInterface;
use Akeneo\Pim\Structure\Component\Query\PublicApi\AttributeType\Attribute;
use Akeneo\Tool\Component\StorageUtils\Exception\InvalidPropertyTypeException;

class RangeValueFactory implements ValueFactory
{

>     function createByCheckingData(Attribute $attribute, ?string $channelCode, ?string $localeCode, $data): ValueInterface

Reviewer 2: Please mind line length

>     function createByCheckingData(Attribute $attribute, ?string $channelCode, ?string $localeCode, $data): ValueInterface

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    public function createByCheckingData(Attribute $attribute, ?string $channelCode, ?string $localeCode, $data): ValueInterface
```

    {
        if ($data === null) {
            $data = ['min' => null, 'max' => null];
        }
        if (!is_array($data)) {
            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayExpected($attribute->code(), static::class, $data);
        }

>         if (!key_exists('min', $data)) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        if (!array_key_exists('min', $data)) {
```

            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayKeyExpected($attribute->code(), 'min', static::class, $data);
        }
        if (!key_exists('max', $data)) {
            throw InvalidPropertyTypeException::arrayKeyExpected($attribute->code(), 'max', static::class, $data);
        }

        return $this->createWithoutCheckingData($attribute, $channelCode, $localeCode, $data);
    }

    public function createWithoutCheckingData(Attribute $attribute, ?string $channelCode, ?string $localeCode, $data): ValueInterface
    {
        if ($attribute->isLocalizableAndScopable()) {
            return RangeValue::scopableLocalizableValue($attribute->code(), $data, $channelCode, $localeCode);
        }
        if ($attribute->isScopable()) {
            return RangeValue::scopableValue($attribute->code(), $data, $channelCode);
        }
        if ($attribute->isLocalizable()) {
            return RangeValue::localizableValue($attribute->code(), $data, $localeCode);
        }

        return RangeValue::value($attribute->code(), $data);
    }

    public function supportedAttributeType(): string
    {
        return RangeType::RANGE;
    }
}
```

```yaml

> # src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]

Reviewer 2: why did you add [...] ad the end of this comment?

Author: To explain the reader that there is still other services above... Don't know if it's a good idea.

Reviewer 2: Oh I see. Personally I would add a new empty line and then
`# ...`

    acme.range.provider.field.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Enrich\Provider\Field\RangeFieldProvider
        tags:
            - { name: pim_enrich.provider.field }

    acme.range.factory.value.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Factory\Value\RangeValueFactory
        public: false
        arguments:
            - 'Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Value\ScalarValue'
            - 'range'
        tags:
            - { name: pim_catalog.factory.value }
```

## Step 4: Process the values

> You will need 2 new services to process the values.

Reviewer 2: values: a setter and a comparator.

> First, the setter, used on the product updater, to update the entity values.

Reviewer 2: The setter, used by the product updater, responsible for updating entity values

> For this one, as there is no specific treatment, we will use the default `AttributeSetter`:

Reviewer 2: processing instead of treatment

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.updater.setter.range_value:
        class: '%pim_catalog.updater.setter.value.class%'
        parent: pim_catalog.updater.setter.abstract
        arguments: [['range']]
        tags:
            - { name: 'pim_catalog.updater.setter' }
```

> Next, the comparator, used to know if the value was updated or not. A comparator returns null if the data was not updated.

Reviewer 2: if > whether

```php
<?php #src/Acme/RangeBundle/Product/Comparator/Attribute/RangeComparator.php

namespace Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Comparator\Attribute;

use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Comparator\ComparatorInterface;

class RangeComparator implements ComparatorInterface
{
    public function supports($data)
    {
        return $data === 'range';
    }

    public function compare($data, $originals)
    {
        $original = $originals['data'];
        $new = $data['data'];

        if (isset($new['min']) && isset($new['max']) && 
            isset($original['min']) && isset($original['max']) &&
            $new['min'] === $original['min'] &&
            $new['max'] === $original['max']
        ) {
            return null;
        }

        return $data;
    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.comparator.attribute.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Comparator\Attribute\RangeComparator
        tags:

>             - { name: pim_catalog.attribute.comparator, priority: -100 }

Reviewer 2: Why such priority number?

```

## Step 5: Completeness

> To compute the completeness, you will define when a value is **complete** or **incomplete**.

Reviewer 2: > To be able to compute the completeness, it has to be defined when a value is considered to be **complete** or **incomplete**

> Since 4.0, we use the notion of masks to generate keys for each filled value.

Reviewer 2: Indicate which software you are referring to here

> The generated mask for a filled value should looks like `attributeCode-channelCode-localeCode`.

Reviewer 2: Can you tell us more here about the usage of masks, why their uniqueness is important, maybe show a sample from the database?

> The generated mask for a filled value should looks like `attributeCode-channelCode-localeCode`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The generated mask for a filled value should look like `attributeCode-channelCode-localeCode`.
```

You need to define your own mask generator for your new attribute type.

> In our case, we will define a value as **complete** only of the `min` and `max` are filled.

Reviewer 2: if

use Acme\RangeBundle\AttributeType\RangeType;
use Akeneo\Pim\Enrichment\Component\Product\Completeness\MaskItemGenerator\MaskItemGeneratorForAttributeType;

class RangeMaskItemGenerator implements MaskItemGeneratorForAttributeType
{
    public function forRawValue(string $attributeCode, string $channelCode, string $localeCode, $value): array
    {
        if ($value['min'] !== null && $value['min'] !== '' && $value['max'] !== null && $value['max'] !== '') {
            return [
                sprintf(
                    '%s-%s-%s',
                    $attributeCode,
                    $channelCode,
                    $localeCode
                )
            ];
        } else {
            return [];
        }
    }

    public function supportedAttributeTypes(): array
    {
        return [RangeType::RANGE];
    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.completeness.mask_item_generator.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Product\Completeness\MaskItemGenerator\RangeMaskItemGenerator
        tags: [{ name: akeneo.pim.enrichment.completeness.mask_item_generator }]
```

## Step 6: User Interface

> You will need to display a new field in the PEF to manipulate your new attribute type.

Reviewer 2: Product Edit Form

Reviewer 2: To be able to use your new attribute type

> Simply add a new HTML template with 2 fields:

Reviewer 2: Remove "Simply"

```html
<!-- src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/templates/product/field/range-field.html -->
<input class="AknTextField AknTextField--noRightRadius min" value="<%- value.data.min %>">

> <input class="AknTextField AknTextField--noLeftRadius max" value="<%- value.data.max %>">

Reviewer 2: You can add a link here to the style guide in case someone wants to create a Christmas tree as a field hehe

```

Register it in the requirejs file:
```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/requirejs.yml
config:
    paths:
        acme/template/range-field: acmerange/templates/product/field/range-field.html
```

Next, you have to create the linked JS module. 

> The `updateModel` function will be called when the user will write in one of the inputs.  

Reviewer 2: each time users will fill in the fields

```javascript
// src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/js/product/field/range-field.js
define(
    ['underscore', 'pim/field', 'acme/template/range-field'],
    (_, Field, template) => {
        return Field.extend({
            inputTemplate: _.template(template),
            events: { 'change input': 'updateModel' },

            renderInput(templateContext) {
                return this.inputTemplate(_.extend(templateContext));
            },

            updateModel: function () {
                this.setCurrentValue({
                    min: this.$('.min').val(),
                    max: this.$('.max').val()
                });
            }
        });
    }
);
```

> Register it in the requirejs file:

Reviewer 2: Add it as a new entry in your `requirejs.yml` file

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/requirejs.yml
config:
    paths:
        acme/range-field: acmerange/js/product/field/range-field
        acme/template/range-field: acmerange/templates/product/field/range-field.html
```

> Next, you will need to tell the front what module to use regarding your new attribute type.

Reviewer 2: indicate

> Next, you will need to tell the front what module to use regarding your new attribute type.

Reviewer 3: I did not understand this paragraph, maybe you should rephrase :man_shrugging:

> The attribute types it can be manipulated through UI have to own a `FieldProviderInterface`.

Reviewer 2: Unclear what you meant here

Define this new provider, it supports only `range` attribute types.

> This class will send to front-end the JS extension to use (here, `acme-range-field`)

Reviewer 2: will indicate what JS extension to use

    }
}
```

```yaml
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/services.yml [...]
    acme.range.provider.field.range:
        class: Acme\RangeBundle\Enrich\Provider\Field\RangeFieldProvider
        tags:
            - { name: pim_enrich.provider.field }
```

Then, register in the form extensions, that the `acme-range-field` have to load the `acme/range-field` extension defined above. 
```
# src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/config/form_extensions.yml
attribute_fields:
    acme-range-field: acme/range-field
```

Finally, you can add the label and icon of this new range attribute by setting a translation and a CSS class:

```yaml
#src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/translations/jsmessages.en_US.yml
pim_enrich.entity.attribute.property.type.range: 'Range'
```

```less
// src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/less/index.less
@import (less) "./public/bundles/acmerange/less/Button.less";
```

```less
// src/Acme/RangeBundle/Resources/public/less/Button.less
.AknButton {
  &-squareIcon {
    &--range {
      background-image: url("/bundles/pimui/images/attribute/icon-metric.svg");
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 7: Export values

> If you want to be able to export values through flat files, you need to code how to convert a range value into a cell.

Reviewer 2: at the beginning of the tutorial you mentioned the export was not covered, am I missing something?

Author: The API export only :)

Reviewer 2: Gotcha

> Here, we render a 10 to 20 range value in this format: `[10...20]`.

Reviewer 2: The value will be normalized like this: [10...20]
